the brand-spanking-new Raspberry Pi 4
has been out for a few months now so
maybe not so new however I want to put
it through its paces specifically can
this thing really replace a desktop
computer now that now that might sound a
bit silly of course it can't replace a
desktop computer
it's a Raspberry Pi however when it was
released that's exactly what it promised
to do I took this image from the PI
website at launch desktop PC replacement
they're pretty clear however now it's
just marketed as a desktop PC and not
specifically app replacements whether
that subtle change in wording means
anything at all I'll leave that up to
you
but anyway it's being sold as a desktop
computer so I want to evaluate it as
such now let's be clear I'm not going to
be stress testing this thing a typical
desktop doesn't need to render 8k
footage in real time what I want to know
is can I get through a day of work plus
all the procrastination that encompasses
on the PI mount Tronics comm is where
you can find the latest of hacker
hardware from Wi-Fi D authors tumult we
know keystroke injectors Wi-Fi key
loggers and USB protectors it is run by
myself so do give it two minutes of your
time
you're guaranteed to like our tech mal
Tronics comm link is in the description
the PI 4 is available in one two and
four gigabyte RAM options I'll be using
the 4 gigabyte here because I want to
give the PI the best possible shot
though before I could even get the PI
powered I run into an issue the poly 4
uses USB C for power ok though my type C
macbook cable just wouldn't work with it
at all hmm well as it turns out this
isn't actually Apple's fault for once
the Raspberry Pi foundation actually
screwed up the type C implementation
messing up on the resistors compliance
USB C is meant to have this means
specifically Emaar cables just won't
work so I had to buy another oh and by
the way don't assume you'll have a power
supply capable of powering the new PI
this thing is pretty power-hungry and
will require a solid 3 amp power supply
so your iPhone charger just isn't going
to cut it like it might with a PI 0
speaking of cables we all love to
complain about change and
yes even I was agitated furious in fact
for a good 30 seconds when I learned
that the new PI would now only use micro
HDMI instead of a full fat connector the
cheek of it
however these cables are pretty cheap
and the connector on the board is built
pretty steadily so I wasn't afraid to
give it a little stress test a little
tug as I bought another Pi is a backup
the new raspbian release is called
Buster for some reason I'm not quite
sure why they chose to name the new
raspbian OS as if it were a mediocre dog
but anyway let's hope it performs better
than it sounds
once up and running the first thing I
did was run an upgrade and damn did this
thing get hot I could barely keep my
finger on the processor for more than a
couple of seconds without fearing third
degree burns if you want to use this
thing for anything other than a desktop
ornaments you better get some kind of
cooling solution to prevent them of
throttling which kicks in at about 80
degrees boot up was pretty snappy a mere
20 seconds I was curious to see what
kind of Wi-Fi speeds I could achieve so
I ran a quick speed test the desktop use
these speeds are more than enough
they're great though without trying to
sound like a snob there are a lot less
than I'm able to achieve on other mobile
devices on the same network on 5
gigahertz this seems to be congruent
with the experience of others perhaps
due to Wi-Fi sharing a bus with the USB
to i/o may be a bit of a bottleneck
there there's of course many a variable
that can affect Wi-Fi though a fair
compromise given there is finally a full
speed Gigabit Ethernet port available if
you need it on this revision of the pi
though as I was trying to figure out why
network speeds were a little slower than
I expected it suddenly hit me I realized
I had 10 plus tabs open on a Raspberry
Pi and was internetting around without a
care in the world
pretty impressive given how sluggish
browsing a map I used to be a lot of my
workday is spent on Google Drive typing
up notes for videos now I'm not sure if
I can call this experience on the PI
pleasant it wasn't unusual for documents
to take 10 to 20 seconds to fully load
scrolling was a little laggy however it
was more than usable just not something
I'd like
to use given the choice I did try a few
other browsers recommended by magpie to
make sure I wasn't just doing a de facto
chromium review though chromium the
browser bundle with the PI was a
snappiest I tried after all it is
optimized specifically for the Raspberry
Pi so that shouldn't be too surprising
of course each of my days comes with an
unhealthy amount of procrastination
mainly in the form of YouTube as in
watching videos while I should be making
them and here's the good news I won't be
getting too much procrastination done on
my PI anytime soon watching videos at
1080p works fine sure it stutters every
now and then there's a little screen
tearing and a few dropped frames but
it's fine not amazing kind of like
eating cereal it fills you up it does
the job just without any grandeur for an
optimal experience your best relegating
yourself to 720p here though the PI can
play back up to 4k 60fps video as long
as it's using the right codec which
YouTube isn't now obviously this is a
codec issue rather than a PI just to
slow issue there are some ways arounds
the PI's YouTube woes however I see Cody
recommended a lot for watching YouTube
on the PI it's a kind of media center
thing formerly named XBMC if you're
familiar however
IMO a desktop PC should be able to
handle streaming video in a browser
without a hitch anyhow I tends to
frequent Netflix so let's give that a
try
hmm ok so so after some googling and
trying a couple other browsers I came to
the realization that Netflix and some
other streaming platforms will refuse to
play ball with the PI due to DRM issues
there are some clever hacky ways around
this mind you by using the curiously
named Vivaldi browser along with an
extension and then a user agent hack you
can get Netflix and the PI to work in
cahoots since we're talking about a PI
as a desktop PC here it's worth
mentioning PI's use microsd cards as
their main boot drive which is great
it's super simple to reflash an SD card
if you screw something up and easy to
swap cards between PI's how
SD cars are pretty slow maxing out at 40
Meg's per second or so this sluggishness
doesn't matter too much for running DIY
projects on your pi though for use as a
desktop computer you might want
something with a little more speed and
capacity after all waiting five seconds
for a browser window to open gets old
quick unfortunately there aren't any
other options at this time on the bright
sides booting via USB Attached storage
is coming at some point when I don't
know though at some points will be able
to boot from a USB connected SSD
hopefully we won't have to wait too long
so is the new Raspberry Pi for a desktop
replacement well it can do everything a
regular desktop can do just slower the
pie has always had a novelty factor to a
certain extent its credit card-sized
cheap power efficient powerful for its
size and very accessible to those
wanting to get into development however
now it can be reasonably compared to a
low-end desktop computer is a pretty big
deal the pie punches above its weight
and I'm glad now wet instead of just
prototyping on the pie with another PC
close at hand if I ever need to oh I
don't know god forbid I need to Google
something I can alpha to it all on the
pie itself but is it a desktop
replacement i I think not so thanks for
watching guys I hope you enjoyed this
video if you have anything to add
whatsoever do let me know down in those
comments
other than that stay tuned for more
hacking videos have a good one